README.md, before:

# :lock: Vaultex

[![Hex.pm](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/v/vaultex.svg)](https://hex.pm/packages/vaultex)
[![Hex.pm](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/dt/vaultex.svg)](https://hex.pm/packages/vaultex)

A very simple elixir client that authenticates, reads, writes, and deletes
secrets from HashiCorp's Vault. As listed on [Vault
Libraries](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/libraries.html#elixir).

## Installation

The package can be installed as:

1) Add `vaultex` to your list of dependencies in `mix.exs`:

```elixir
def deps do
  [{:vaultex, "~> 0.8"}]
end
```
2) Ensure `vaultex` is started before your application:

```elixir
def application do
  [applications: [:vaultex]]
end
```
## Configuration

You can configure your vault endpoint with a single environment variable:

  * `VAULT_ADDR`

Or a single application variable:

  * `:vaultex, :vault_addr`

An example value for `VAULT_ADDR` is `http://127.0.0.1:8200`.

Alternatively the vault endpoint can be specified with environment variables:

  * `VAULT_HOST`
  * `VAULT_PORT`
  * `VAULT_SCHEME`

Or application variables:

  * `:vaultex, :host`
  * `:vaultex, :port`
  * `:vaultex, :scheme`

These default to `localhost`, `8200`, `http` respectively.

You can skip SSL certificate verification with `:vaultex, vault_ssl_verify:
true` option or `VAULT_SSL_VERIFY=true` environment variable.

If you do want to use SSL verification, set the `VAULT_CACERT` environment
variable to the SSL certificate location.  (See the [Vault
documentaion](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/commands/#vault_cacert) for more
details.)

## Usages

To read a secret you must provide the path to the secret and the authentication
backend and credentials you will use to login. See the
[Vaultex.Client.auth/2](https://hexdocs.pm/vaultex/Vaultex.Client.html#auth/2)
docs for supported auth backends.

Authenticate to different authentication backends.

```elixir
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:app_id, {app_id, user_id})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:userpass, {username, password})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:ldap, {username, password})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:github, {github_token})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:approle, {role_id, secret_id})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:token, {token})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:kubernetes, %{jwt: "jwt", role: "role"})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:radius, %{username: "user", password: "password"})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:aws_iam, {role, server})
```

Reading secret from authenticated backends.

```elixir
iex> Vaultex.Client.read "secret/bar", :github, {github_token}
{:ok, %{"value" => bar"}}

iex> Vaultex.Client.read_dynamic "secret/dynamic/bar", :github, {github_token}
{:ok,
 %{
  "data" => %{"value" => "bar"},
  "lease_duration" => 60,
  "lease_id" => "secret/dynamic/foo/b4z",
  "renewable" => true
}}
```

Additional actions on the secret.

```elixir
iex> Vaultex.Client.renew_lease("secret/dynamic/foo/b4z", 100, :github, {github_token})
{:ok,
 %{
  "lease_id" => "secret/dynamic/foo/b4z",
  "lease_duration" => 160,
  "renewable" => true
}}

iex> Vaultex.Client.write "secret/foo", %{"value" => "bar"}, :app_id, {app_id, user_id}

iex> Vaultex.Client.delete "secret/foo", :app_id, {app_id, user_id}
```

## Notes for `aws_iam` method

The AWS IAM authentication method requires you to have
[ExAws](https://github.com/ex-aws/ex_aws) installed as a dependency and
correctly configured. No additional ExAws modules are required. For more
details see the [Vault AWS
docs](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/aws.html).

  * If `role` id set to `nil` Vault will try to infer the vault role to use.
  * `server` may be set to `nil` or to the value to pass in the
    `X-Vault-AWS-IAM-Server-ID` header.

## Releasing

To release you need to bump the version and add some changes to the change log,
you can do this with:

```
mix eliver.bump
```

Commit message:

fetch changes from Semsee/vaultex

README.md, after:

# :lock: Vaultex

[![Hex.pm](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/v/vaultex.svg)](https://hex.pm/packages/vaultex)
[![Hex.pm](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/dt/vaultex.svg)](https://hex.pm/packages/vaultex)

A very simple elixir client that authenticates, reads, writes, and deletes
secrets from HashiCorp's Vault. As listed on [Vault
Libraries](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/libraries.html#elixir).

This is **fork** from the original vaultex library at
[findmypast/vaultex](https://github.com/findmypast/vaultex), which appears to be abandoned
by the author at this time.

## Installation

The package can be installed as:

1) Add `vaultex` to your list of dependencies in `mix.exs`:

```elixir
def deps do
  [{:vaultex, "~> 2.0"}]
end
```
2) Ensure `vaultex` is started before your application:

```elixir
def application do
  [applications: [:vaultex]]
end
```
## Configuration

You can configure your vault endpoint with a single environment variable:

  * `VAULT_ADDR`

Or a single application variable:

  * `:vaultex, :vault_addr`

An example value for `VAULT_ADDR` is `http://127.0.0.1:8200`.

Alternatively the vault endpoint can be specified with environment variables:

  * `VAULT_HOST`
  * `VAULT_PORT`
  * `VAULT_SCHEME`

Or application variables:

  * `:vaultex, :host`
  * `:vaultex, :port`
  * `:vaultex, :scheme`

These default to `localhost`, `8200`, `http` respectively.

You can skip SSL certificate verification with `:vaultex, vault_ssl_verify:
true` option or `VAULT_SSL_VERIFY=true` environment variable.

If you do want to use SSL verification, set the `VAULT_CACERT` environment
variable to the SSL certificate location.  (See the [Vault
documentaion](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/commands/#vault_cacert) for more
details.)

## Usages

To read a secret you must provide the path to the secret and the authentication
backend and credentials you will use to login. See the
[Vaultex.Client.auth/2](https://hexdocs.pm/vaultex/Vaultex.Client.html#auth/2)
docs for supported auth backends.

Authenticate to different authentication backends.

```elixir
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:app_id, {app_id, user_id})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:userpass, {username, password})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:ldap, {username, password})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:github, {github_token})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:approle, {role_id, secret_id})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:token, {token})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:kubernetes, %{jwt: "jwt", role: "role"})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:radius, %{username: "user", password: "password"})
iex> Vaultex.Client.auth(:aws_iam, {role, server})
```

Reading secret from authenticated backends.

```elixir
iex> Vaultex.Client.read "secret/bar", :github, {github_token}
{:ok, %{"value" => bar"}}

iex> Vaultex.Client.read_dynamic "secret/dynamic/bar", :github, {github_token}
{:ok,
 %{
  "data" => %{"value" => "bar"},
  "lease_duration" => 60,
  "lease_id" => "secret/dynamic/foo/b4z",
  "renewable" => true
}}
```

Additional actions on the secret.

```elixir
iex> Vaultex.Client.renew_lease("secret/dynamic/foo/b4z", 100, :github, {github_token})
{:ok,
 %{
  "lease_id" => "secret/dynamic/foo/b4z",
  "lease_duration" => 160,
  "renewable" => true
}}

iex> Vaultex.Client.write "secret/foo", %{"value" => "bar"}, :app_id, {app_id, user_id}

iex> Vaultex.Client.delete "secret/foo", :app_id, {app_id, user_id}
```

## Notes for `aws_iam` method

The AWS IAM authentication method requires you to have
[ExAws](https://github.com/ex-aws/ex_aws) installed as a dependency and
correctly configured. No additional ExAws modules are required. For more
details see the [Vault AWS
docs](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/aws.html).

  * If `role` id set to `nil` Vault will try to infer the vault role to use.
  * `server` may be set to `nil` or to the value to pass in the
    `X-Vault-AWS-IAM-Server-ID` header.

## Releasing

To release you need to bump the version and add some changes to the change log,
you can do this with:

```
mix eliver.bump
```
